.TH CLAUDE-CTX 1 "2025-11-12" "claude-ctx 1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
claude-ctx \- Manage Claude CTX agents, skills, workflows, and the interactive TUI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B claude-ctx
[B-hR | B--helpR]
.br
.B claude-ctx
ICOMMANDR [ISUBCOMMANDR] [IARGSR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B claude-ctx
is the command-line entry point for the Claude CTX plugin. It lets you inspect and
activate agents, modes, and rules, launch curated workflows, orchestrate scenarios,
export context bundles, and open the Rich/Textual-based TUI for day-to-day
operations. The CLI reads the Claude context tree from
.BR CLAUDE_CTX_HOME ,
.BR CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT ,
then B~/.claudeR (first match wins).

Many commands expose additional help with
.B --help
on the command or subcommand.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -h \, --help
Show help for the current command and exit.
.SH COMMAND SUMMARY
.TP
.B status
Display overall health: active agents, modes, rules, workflows, and metrics.
.TP
.B mode
List, activate, or deactivate behavioral modes.
.TP
.B agent
Inspect, activate, deactivate, or validate agents plus dependency graphs.
.TP
.B rules
Manage rule modules that enforce workflow, quality, or efficiency policies.
.TP
.B skills
List, inspect, validate, and analyze skills plus community registry operations.
.TP
.B profile
Save, list, or load multi-agent profiles (built-in or custom snapshots).
.TP
.B init
Bootstrap a repository with wizard-driven defaults or cached state.
.TP
.B workflow
Run, list, resume, stop, or monitor predefined multi-step workflows.
.TP
.B orchestrate
Preview, validate, run, or stop YAML scenarios (alias: BorchR).
See Bclaude-ctx-workflowR(1) for workflow + scenario details.
.TP
.B mcp
Inspect or validate Model Context Protocol servers.
.TP
.B ai
Show recommendations, auto-activate confident agents, export metrics, or record
feedback for the intelligent assistant.
.TP
.B export
List exportable components and emit Markdown bundles or stdout streams.
.TP
.B tui
Launch the interactive dashboard. See Bclaude-ctx-tuiR(1).
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.SS status
.TP
.B claude-ctx status
Summarize active agents, rules, and diagnostics.
.SS doctor
.TP
.B claude-ctx doctor [B--fixR]
Run system diagnostics to find duplicates, inconsistencies, and optimization opportunities.
Use B--fixR to attempt automatic repairs.
.SS mode
.TP
.B list
List mode files under I~/.claude/modesR.
.TP
.B status
Show currently active modes.
.TP
.B activate IMODES...R
Enable one or more modes (omit .md extension).
.TP
.B deactivate IMODES...R
Disable one or more modes.
.SS agent
.TP
.B list | status
Display available or active agents.
.TP
.B activate | deactivate IAGENTS...R [B--forceR]
Toggle agents, optionally overriding dependency checks with B--forceR.
.TP
.B deps IAGENTR
Display dependency metadata.
.TP
.B graph [B--exportR IPATHR]
Render aggregated dependency graph, optionally exporting to a file.
.TP
.B validate [B--allR] [IAGENTS...R]
Validate agent front matter and schema.
.SS rules
.TP
.B list | status
Show available or active rule modules.
.TP
.B activate | deactivate IRULES...R
Toggle rules (omit .md extension).
.SS skills
.TP
.B list | info ISKILLR
List skills or inspect metadata for a specific skill.
.TP
.B validate [B--allR] [ISKILLS...R]
Validate skill definitions.
.TP
.B analyze ITEXTR | suggest [B--project-dirR IPATHR]
Generate recommendations from free text or a project directory.
.TP
.B metrics [ISKILLR] [B--resetR]
Show or reset usage metrics.
.TP
.B deps | agents ISKILLR
List dependent agents.
.TP
.B compose ISKILLR | versions ISKILLR
Inspect dependency trees or version availability.
.TP
.B analytics [B--metricR INAMER] | report [B--formatR IFORMATR] | trending [B--daysR INR]
Advanced analytics, reporting, and trend analysis.
.TP
.B community ISUBCOMMANDR
List, search, validate, install, rate, or filter community skills.
.SS profile
.TP
.B list | save INAMER | minimal | backend | ...
Manage built-in and custom profiles. Additional generated subcommands appear for
each profile template (see Bprofiles/R).
.SS init
.TP
.B claude-ctx init [B--interactiveR] [B--resumeR]
Run the init wizard or resume the last session. Subcommands:
.TP
.B detect [IPATHR]
Refresh cached project context.
.TP
.B minimal | profile INAMER | status [B--jsonR] | reset | resume | wizard
Additional helpers for storing, inspecting, or clearing init state.
.SS workflow (see also Bclaude-ctx-workflowR(1))
.TP
.B list | run IWORKFLOWR | status | resume | stop [IWORKFLOWR]
Work with YAML workflows stored under I~/.claude/workflowsR. The optional name in
BstopR confirms you are stopping the correct workflow.
.SS orchestrate (alias: BorchR, see Bclaude-ctx-workflowR(1))
.TP
.B list | preview ISCENARIOR | validate [B--allR] [ISCENARIOS...R] | status
Inspect scenario metadata.
.TP
.B run ISCENARIOR [B--autoR|B--interactiveR|B--planR|B--previewR|B--validateR]
Execute a scenario phase plan.
.TP
.B stop ISCENARIOR
Stop a running scenario.
.SS mcp
.TP
.B list | show ISERVERR | docs ISERVERR | test ISERVERR | snippet ISERVERR | diagnose
Manage Model Context Protocol servers declared in I~/.claude/mcpR.
.SS ai
.TP
.B recommend | auto-activate | record-success [B--outcomeR]
Interact with the AI assistant.
.TP
.B export [B--outputR PATH]
Write recommendations to JSON.
.TP
.B watch [B--no-auto-activateR] [B--thresholdR N] [B--intervalR SECONDS]
Stream live recommendations.
.SS export
.TP
.B list
Show each export category and the number of files detected.
.TP
.B context IOUTPUTR [B--exclude-categoryR INAMER] [B--exclude-fileR IPATHR] [B--no-agent-genericR]
Emit a Markdown bundle to a file or stdout.
.SS tui (see Bclaude-ctx-tuiR(1))
.TP
.B claude-ctx tui
Launch the interactive dashboard with keyboard-driven views for agents, modes,
rules, workflows, orchestration, profiles, export, MCP servers, AI insights, and
more.
.SH FILES
The CLI reads and writes inside the Claude home directory (default: B~/.claudeR).
Key paths include:
.TP
.B ~/.claude/agents/
Agent definitions and metadata.
.TP
.B ~/.claude/modes/
Active mode definitions. Inactive modes live under inactive/modes/R.
.TP
.B ~/.claude/rules/
Reusable rule modules.
.TP
.B ~/.claude/skills/
Skill definitions, dependency maps, metric ledgers, and community registries.
.TP
.B ~/.claude/workflows/
Workflow YAML definitions.
.TP
.B ~/.claude/scenarios/
Scenario orchestration definitions.
.TP
.B ~/.claude/profiles/
Saved profile snapshots.
.TP
.B ~/.claude/CLAUDE.md
Primary include file loaded by Claude Code.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B CLAUDE_CTX_HOME
Override the location of the Claude context tree.
.TP
.B CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT
Alternative override (set automatically inside Claude Code).
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Activate a debugging mode:
.nf
claude-ctx mode activate debug
.fi
.TP
Toggle an agent stack and inspect dependencies:
.nf
claude-ctx agent activate python-expert reviewer
claude-ctx agent deps python-expert
.fi
.TP
Validate everything before a release:
.nf
claude-ctx agent validate --all
claude-ctx skills validate --all
claude-ctx orchestrate validate --all
.fi
.TP
Generate workflow and scenario output:
.nf
claude-ctx workflow run feature-development
claude-ctx orchestrate run launch-day --plan
.fi
.TP
Stop the active workflow before switching tasks:
.nf
claude-ctx workflow stop feature-development
.fi
.TP
Export a trimmed context bundle:
.nf
claude-ctx export context release-notes.md \
    --exclude-category agents \
    --exclude-file "rules/experimental-rules.md"
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR claude-ctx-tui (1),
.BR claude-ctx-workflow (1),
Ihttps://github.com/nferguson/claude-ctx-pluginR,
Idocs/guides/tui.mdR
