.TH CLAUDE-CTX-TUI 1 "2025-11-12" "claude-ctx 1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
claude-ctx-tui \- Launch the Claude CTX Rich/Textual dashboard
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B claude-ctx tui
[B-hR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Bclaude-ctx tuiR command opens a Rich/Textual interface that surfaces every
part of the Claude CTX context bundle in one place. Views are arranged across a
number row (1-9 plus dedicated hotkeys) and show counts, statuses, dependency
information, orchestration progress, and export options without leaving the
terminal. The TUI reads the same Claude home directory used by the CLI and
updates automatically when agents, workflows, or scenarios change on disk.

The header shows the current view title, the body renders the selected table or
panel, and the footer lists context-aware shortcuts. Press B?R at any time for a
full keyboard reference.
.SH VIEWS
.TP
.B 1 \(em Overview
System status banner with counts for agents, modes, rules, skills, running
workflows, and quick hints.
.TP
.B 2 \(em Agents
Toggle agents with BSpaceR, open details with BEnterR, and filter with B/R.
.TP
.B 3 \(em Modes
Show active/inactive modes, each with purpose text. Toggling mirrors
Bclaude-ctx modeR commands.
.TP
.B 4 \(em Rules
List rule modules by category with the same toggle semantics as the CLI.
.TP
.B 5 \(em Skills
View installed skills plus validation (BvR), metrics (BmR), and community info
(BcR).
.TP
.B 6 \(em Workflows
Display YAML workflows, statuses, progress bars, current steps, and elapsed time.
Press (\fBShift+R\fR) to run the highlighted workflow without leaving the dashboard,\nor (\fBs\fR) to stop the active workflow.
.TP
.B 7 \(em MCP
Inspect configured Model Context Protocol servers, run diagnostics, and trigger
snippets.
.TP
.B 8 \(em Profiles
Apply built-in profiles (BSpaceR), save the current snapshot (BnR), or delete
saved profiles (BDR).
.TP
.B 9 \(em Export
Pick which categories to export, choose Claude-specific vs agent-generic output,
and trigger exports (BeR) or clipboard copies (BxR).
.TP
.B 0 \(em AI Assistant
Display live recommendations, workflow predictions, and auto-activation
candidates.
.TP
.B S \(em Scenarios
Load YAML scenarios, show priorities, phase counts, agents, and timestamps.
Preview (BPR), auto-run (BShift+RR), stop (BsR), validate (BVR), or
show historical locks (BHR).
.TP
.B o \(em Orchestrate
Live task board that aggregates active agents by workstream with progress bars
and parallel efficiency hints.
.TP
.B t \(em Tasks
Manage custom tasks created during orchestration or diagnostics.
.TP
.B g \(em Galaxy
Graph visualization for agents and their dependencies.
.SH KEYBOARD SHORTCUTS
.TP
.B 1-9,0,S,o,t,g
Jump directly to a view (see above).
.TP
.B Space
Contextual toggle (agents, modes, rules, export categories, profiles).
.TP
.B Enter
Open a detail drawer when available.
.TP
.B /
Filter the active table.
.TP
.B r
Refresh the current view.
.TP
.B ?
Display the global help overlay.
.TP
.B q
Quit the TUI.
.TP
.B Ctrl+P
Open the command palette for fuzzy view/action search.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.claude
Default Claude home inspected by the TUI (overridable via BCLAUDE_CTX_HOMER).
.TP
.B ~/.claude/tasks/current
Task state files used by the Orchestrate and Tasks views.
.TP
.B ~/.claude/workflows/, ~/.claude/scenarios/, ~/.claude/profiles/
Backing stores for the corresponding views.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B CLAUDE_CTX_HOME
Override the Claude home path scanned by the TUI.
.TP
.B CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT
Alternate override automatically set inside Claude Code.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR claude-ctx (1),
.BR claude-ctx-workflow (1),
Idocs/guides/tui.mdR,
Idocs/guides/tui/tui-entity-guide.mdR
